# School_District_Analysis

The full answer including python codes to this modle challenge is uploaded as Student_Data_Challenge_Starter_Code.ipynb in the School_District_Analysis repository.

Below I reiterated the summary of findings:

Deliverables 1 and 2 were concerned with reading a CSV file, importing data into a DataFrame and cleaning it using pandas library functions. The collection and preparation phases revealed, in particualr, missing values in reading and math score columns (1968 and 982, respectively) and 1836 duplicated rows, which all were removed from the dataset. Besides, it was found that "grade" column was stored as object which I converted it into integer after removing "th" from the grade values. This way, numerical calculations could be applied to grade column as well.

In Deliverable 3, I obtained a table of summary statistics related to different columns. The results shows that students from all schools scored 72.36 in reading 64.67 in math indicating a better performance in reading and need for improvements in math. Perhaps, schools will have to invest more in math education in future. The average budget allocated was 893742.75 which currently cannot be interpreted easily as no scales is assigned nor it can be compared to a point of reference. So, adding additional information about school budgets would be of consequence in explaining schools' performance.

Deliverable 4 aimed to provide additional insights by narrowing down our analysis to subsets of data. Using location functions, I could, for example, find that while Sullivan High School performed much better in math compare to Dixon and Wagner High School (88.2, 73.5, 70.4, respectively), the average reading score of Sullivan High School was sensibly lower than the other two (59 vs 94.7, 89). The results suggests that while Sullivan High School is expected to enhance its students' reading capabilities, Dixon and Wagner High Schools should focus more on improving math education. Although the more detailed insights are helpful in understanding school and individual-level performances, further analysis could still be done in this part. For example, one could investigate relationships between reading and math scores with school budgets, or whether student performance differs significantly given the grade or school at which students study.

Finally, the 5th deliverable allowed me to organize findings in the previous part by aggregating data into subgroups such as Charter vs Public schools, or based on school names. Such aggregations were beneficial in that they illuminated group differences which were not visible previously. For example, I could find that public schools spend on average more than charter schools. Of course, additional information (for example, student_count) is needed to make better comparsions (for example, budget per student) among schools in terms of their productivity. I also could figure out that while students in public high schools in all grades (expect for grade 11) scored on average the same in math, lower grade students at charter high schools performed on average better than higher grade students in math.

Overall, the analysis I did in this module challenge revealed valuable insights about the structure of school data and allowed comparisons among high schools and their students. However, further scrutiny is needed to make reliable conclusions on schools performances. As a suggestion, investigating relationships and more detailed group differences can be of great value in this respect.
